# Storage: 

Azure Data Share is a feature used by companies to share data with other companies and partners. These companies that share the data are in charge of what they share. Azure data sharing makes it easy for companies to monitor and evaluate their data. Data is very important for companies to have and maintain to satisfy their customers. Python could be used to leverage this service through APIs. This is useful because companies may lose track of which data was shared and where it was shared. Using Python through APIs may simplify data processing and sharing; the data would be able to stay up to date and would be continuously monitored by employers. Examples of using Python include creating a data share account within Azure, datasets shared within data sources using features of Azure Data Share, and inviting recipients and consumers to access data share. Companies can specify how their data is managed when using Azure Data Share; the consumer using the data, provided by the company, is required to accept the terms developed by them.

Azure Data Lake Storage is used for big data analytics. Data Lake Storage Gen2 combines Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1 and Azure Blob Storage. Azure Blob Storage stores and manages unstructured data. Data Lake Storage Gen2 offers file system characteristics, security at the file level, and scalability. It allows companies to manage large volumes of data. Specifically, a data lake is where unstructured and structured data can be stored. Companies are able to analyze data located in one place. Data does not need to be conformed to a certain structure because it allows raw formats of data. Python can be used for this service through SDKs. Python can be used for authentication, data ingestion, and data retrieval. Azure SDKs can be used for authentication, Python scripts can be used to collect data into Azure Data Lake Storage for data ingestion, and Python scripts can also be used to access data. 

# Compute: 

Azure Functions is a cloud service that offers on-demand availability, supplying all the recent infrastructure and resources required for the execution of a company’s applications. The cloud infrastructure makes it easier for companies to store up to date information. Coding can be done in conjunction with Azure Functions. You are able to choose your preferred language and Azure Functions will handle the rest of the process. Azure Functions offers an extensive array of event-driven triggers and bindings, facilitating the connection of functions to other services without involving additional coding. Python functions can be developed and tested locally with the Azure Functions extension. Python functions can also be deployed in Azure Functions using Azure CLI and Github. Azure Functions has various hosting options including App Service Environment (ASE), Azure Container Apps, and Kubernetes. 

Azure Batch is a service used to run large-scale applications efficiently in the cloud. Azure Batch manages and creates a pool of virtual machines also known as compute nodes. It also installs intended applications and schedules jobs to run on the virtual machines. Batch APIs are used to manage and monitor jobs, so there is no job scheduler software to install and manage. SaaS applications can be built using Azure Batch as the platform. Batch is able to run parallel workloads. This means two applications can run simultaneously while remaining independent of each other. Python can be applied to Azure Batch services. Examples of using Python include job preparation, task execution, and task dependencies. Python can prepare job scripts that set up the environment, Python can be used to define tasks and then execute them, and Python can help companies define the order of tasks. 

# Databases: 

Azure Table Storage is a service that stores non-relational structured data in the cloud. This service is also schemaless meaning that the database makes almost no changes to the data. Therefore, it is easy to adapt data to the company’s needs as the application evolves. Azure Table storage is fast and cost-effective for many types of applications. Normally, Azure Table storage is cheaper than traditional SQL for similar amounts of data. Azure Table storage can be utilized to store datasets for user data for web applications and address books. This service stores large amounts of structured data. The type of service is a NoSQL datastore. Table storage can be used to store and query large amounts of structured, non-relational data. Python could be used to leverage Azure Table storage by creating tables, inserting data, and querying data. Python can be used to define table schema by stating the table’s name and properties, to create entities for data that is getting organized into tables, and to create queries to filter, sort, and project data. 

Azure Cache for Redis provides an in-memory data store based on the Redis software. Redis is an open-source, in-memory data store used by many developers as a database, cache, streaming engine, and message broker. Redis enhances the efficiency of applications that heavily rely on backend data stores. By storing frequently accessed data in server memory, it can handle substantial application requests, allowing for rapid read and write operations. Redis serves as an essential data storage solution with minimal latency for modern applications. Python could be used to leverage Azure Cache for Redis by pub/sub messaging, concurrency control, and monitoring and logging. Python can use this service as a messaging system for communication between different applications, Redis commands can be used for distributed locking, and Python can help track cache usage.       
